Communities Work to Recover After Storms, Tornadoes Across the South

From a tornado that wiped out homes in northwest Arkansas to another that killed two people in Florida Panhandle, this week's severe weather outbreak across the South left a trail of destruction in its wake.

Among those who experienced it firsthand was Marilyn Gross, whose neighbors in Washington County, Florida, died when a tornado struck their neighborhood early Thursday morning.

Gross told the Tallahassee Democrat that her home was lifted about 30 feet into the air – with her inside.

“I could feel it (lifting up), I was yelling, ‘Hang on, babies, hang on,’ because I have my two dogs with me,” Gross said. “‘Hang on, babies,’ and then it finally stopped ... I got really scared because I really didn’t know how far I was going to go. I didn’t know where my house was going to end up.”

She and other residents in the community about 60 miles northwest of Tallahassee are mourning the loss of their two neighbors.

(MORE: Aerial Look at Homes Destroyed By Deadly Tornado in Florida)

In Arkansas, seven people were injured when a tornado hit the town of Springdale Wednesday.

“You can’t be in charge of things like this but they don’t give you a game plan for when it does happen, you know? You’re winging it,” Springdale resident Joseph Webb told KFSM-TV as chainsaws buzzed around his neighborhood.

Webb's home sustained heavy damage.

“Just being safe. That’s the name of the game right now, is just be safe, take care of yourself, your own and look out for those around you that look like they need help,” he said.

(MORE: Dramatic Drone Footage Shows Storm Damage in Arkansas)

Winds ahead of the storm were blamed for wildfires that started Wednesday and forced thousands to evacuate near Gatlinburg, Tennessee. High winds also caused tens of thousands of power outages in Michigan Thursday.

In all, there were 225 reports of tornadoes across more than a dozen states from Tuesday to Thursday, according to the National Weather Service. That number may set a record for the month.