Firefighters Gain Ground on Gatlinburg Area Wildfire

Amid less hazardous weather, firefighters gained ground against a destructive wildfire in the Gatlinburg, Tennessee, area Thursday.

The fire was 30% contained, according to an early evening update from the Sevier County Emergency Management Agency. That was up from 5% in the morning.

The flames had scorched nearly 6 square miles of land and burned more than 100 structures and five firefighting vehicles. Some 11,000 homes were under mandatory evacuation orders after the fire started Wednesday and quickly grew in size.

Sevier County Mayor Larry Waters said in a Thursday morning press conference that it was unclear how many of the damaged structures were homes.

One construction worker on a bulldozer was injured when the fire overran his vehicle. He was flown to the University of Tennessee Medical Center, but there were no updates on his condition. Two firefighters suffered minor injuries, which were treated on the scene.

Waters said that there were no deaths and no reports of missing persons at this time, but the evacuations would remain in place until firefighters got the upper hand on the blaze.

The Hatcher Mountain Fire was one of several fires that broke out in the area Wednesday, including one closer to Gatlinburg proper overnight that happened after wind knocked down a power line that sparked the blaze. That fire forced evacuations early Thursday morning, but those orders have since been rescinded after the fire was contained.

Fire officials said that all other fires were contained and that their main focus was the Hatcher Mountain fire, which more than tripled in size overnight and forced expanded evacuations multiple times. Some 11,000 homes were involved in all of the evacuations, Waters said.

The Sevier County Emergency Management Agency announced late Thursday afternoon that the size of the main evacuation area was being reduced. Minutes later, the agency announced a new mandatory evacuation order.