Rain Before Winter Storms Challenges Road-Clearing Crews

A snowplow driver cleans snow off his truck in downtown Falmouth, Massachusetts, during a winter storm on Jan. 29, 2022.
Snowfighters call it the "worst possible scenario."

Rapidly changing weather with rain that turns to snow and then ice that coats roads can create some of the most dangerous and deadly winter driving conditions, and is one of the biggest challenges for road-clearing crews and the agencies that run them.

"As long as the snow isn't frozen to the pavement, I can plow it off literally all day and all night and it will peel away and I will have great, relatively great, pavement conditions," said Wilfred Nixon, an expert on winter road maintenance. "The problem happens when it freezes to the surface. So we try to prevent that."

(MORE: Winter Storm Blanketing the Plains, Midwest and South Will Turn Into an East Coast Bomb Cyclone)

Nixon spent a career researching snow and ice removal and related topics and is now president of the Professional Snowfighters Association, a nonprofit trade group for those who work in the industry.

He and Rick Nelson, manager of the Snow and Ice Cooperative Program developed by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, both spoke recently to weather.com about the hurdles faced in keeping roads safe for drivers during winter weather.

The setup of rain turning to snow and then ice has accompanied several winter storms this season, and is possible for some areas into the weekend as a late-season winter storm marches across the Plains, parts of the Midwest and South and into New England.

Crews in places like Arkansas and North Texas started treating roads Thursday, trying to get ahead of the weather.

The most common road treatment solution is salt brine – a solution of salt and water. Because it has a lower freezing point than pure water, it can help limit the amount of snow and ice that adheres to road surfaces. But rain is a killer for salt brine.

"The roads are designed, properly, to drain away," Nixon said. "So I put my brine down, it drains away with rain, that goes away and then it starts snowing. And before you know what's happening, I've now got snow and ice frozen to the pavement, which means I have a much less desirable surface condition."

It's a combination that creates the "the worst possible scenario for the maintenance folks out there," Nelson said.