U.S. may wait until summer to authorize Covid shots for youngest kids

FDA MAY HOLD OFF ON KID COVID SHOTS UNTIL JUNE — President Joe Biden’s chief medical adviser Anthony Fauci confirmed to CNN’s Kasie Hunt Thursday that FDA is considering waiting until early summer to authorize Covid-19 vaccines for children under 5 in an effort to green light products from Pfizer and Moderna simultaneously. His remarks came after POLITICO’s Adam Cancryn scooped the details of the administration’s thinking: Authorizing the vaccine by Moderna, which plans to complete its emergency use authorization submission by the end of the month, weeks before Pfizer-BioNTech’s would make it harder for the government to promote the shots. It could also undermine confidence in their effectiveness, especially if Pfizer’s vaccine appears to perform better than Moderna’s.

But on the flip side, sitting on data for a vaccine FDA expects to authorize is likely to further enrage the parents of young children who have spoken out for months about their frustration as cases have ebbed and flowed thanks to the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Parents complain the goalposts have seemingly moved since children ages 5 to 11 got access to the shots in November when administration officials publicly suggested vaccines for kids as young as 6 months could be available by early 2022. FDA scheduled an advisory meeting in February to consider authorizing Pfizer’s vaccine as a two-dose series — with a potential third dose to be added later once more data was collected — only to cancel it days later, which further fanned the flames.

Parents on social media plan a pressure campaign to flood FDA’s vaccine center with calls urging speedy consideration for the Moderna vaccine once its application is complete. Amy Pisani, CEO of Vaccinate Your Family, told Lauren she believes the public has gained a stronger understanding of the FDA’s regulatory process and can accept if one vaccine gains authorization before another.

“I think it’s a better thing … being staggered,” she said on the sidelines of the World Vaccine Congress this week.